I'm sharing the 10 deadliest sins when
it comes to B2B web
design hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top
10 B2B marketing podcast business growth
show and to check out my free B2B
marketing playbooks week daily emails or
whenever you're ready to apply to work
with me head over to samd dunn. org so
today I'm going to share the top 10
deadliest sins I see day in day out when
when it comes to B2B websites along with
some ideas to fix it to do the reverse
to make sure your B2B website is a top
provider of qualified leads and revenue
so let's dive into
it so deadly sin number one is a lack of
research the greatest B2B websites are
not built on guesswork they're clearly
thought about planned strategized and
then executed in terms of design build
delivery and marketing so some ideas
when it comes comes to planning and
researching a website might be customer
interviews so interviewing perhaps
prospects that you're looking to do
business with perhaps customers that you
just won and understand what they want
to see learn and take action upon and
what you want them to see learn and take
action upon when it comes to a website
like yours so when customer interviews
are involved it might be understanding
those juicy bleeding neck problems and
frustrations that they have around your
industry and how your product or your
offer is positioned to fix those
understanding the language the jargon
the words they actually use to describe
your offer the problem that you fix and
the results that you bring to them so
you can leverage that for your website
messaging copy and design understanding
reviewing your main competitors so what
are any gaps that you can fulfill are
there any common issues that you see
with competitors any ways that you can
one up them in several angles planning
out the key Pages what are the key pages
that you're going to have on your
website what is going to be the
structure maybe that's doing a prototype
maybe that's doing a wireframe a user
flow so you can really understand how
those pages going to be structured what
are the main elements for example
homepage might be top menu navigation
might be your hero or Banner area you
might have some social proof Brands work
with testimonials you might go into
screenshots demo video snapshots your
products some more social proof dive
into some of the features and have your
Foo of navigation so you might structure
out each and every page how that's going
to flow based upon your customer
research your competitor analysis and
understanding what your prospects
actually want to quickly see
learn and take action upon in order to
become a qualified inbound league so
that research stage is critical to make
sure your webite resonates hits home and
converts Target
clients deadly sin number two is
designing for yourself for your CEO or
for your marketing team because none of
you are your target client or your buyer
you've probably got a warehouse full of
your services you've got plenty of your
offerings you don't need them but your
target C clients might so that's why
leaning on towards tip one more of the
same is really understanding what do
your focus your dream clients care about
fixing when it comes to their
frustrations and problems what are the
main jobs they want to get done what are
their main goals their motivations and
why do they want what do they want as an
outcome as a result of working with you
so you can really leverage those things
when it comes to your website headlines
messaging your copy any videos that you
create on your site any media you put
out your blog article tools when it
comes to detail Pages service Pages
offering pages so it's all keeping top
of mind what those focused clients
actually care about and customer
interviews and research is really vital
here because then you can literally ask
them questions around their problems
their jobs to be done their goals their
motivations and make sure each relevant
offer page service page integration page
whatever is relevant on your B2B website
is keeping them front of Mind attacking
those issues those goals straight away
so when someone flicks on your website
remember they probably time short if
they're on their mobile if they're on
their PC they want you to get to the
point they will understand that you're
able to help them you understand their
world that you can share proof of impact
proof of results and then they may take
that next step and get in touch with
you deadly sin number three is a slow
page speed put yourself in a potential
customer shoes you stumble across your
website for the first time maybe a
Google search because you need the
service or offer maybe you're
recommended or elsewhere and you're
trying load up the site and you're
waiting one second two seconds 3 seconds
more it's just not loading it's not
getting anywhere perhaps you try it on
your mobile you get annoyed you try on
your PC it's still taking an age you
eventually fire up the homepage and you
click into a service or offer page and
again that's painstakingly slow and it
gets to the point where you can't see
the information you want to see perhaps
it takes ages to open up the requested
demo or request a consult page get so
annoyed you jump to a competitor well if
your website's slow as that then your
ideal customers the people that landing
on his site you're going to do just the
same bounce off and you're going to be
losing a ton of traffic in potential
leads because you've got a slow website
so I recommend a tool called page speed
insights by Google you can quite
literally just type in your url of your
website click analyze and it'll give you
your page speed on mobile and PC fully
broken down with a bunch of actionable
tips to improve it common Su suspects
are if you're using a platform like
WordPress you might need to update the
platform perhaps you've got too many
plugins perhaps your images aren't
optimized for web perhaps you've got too
many videos embedded maybe your hosting
isn't up to speed maybe you've got a
slow shared hosting provider you
actually need to ramp up those are some
common issues that we see but it's
always worth investigating it with your
web developers so yeah aim to get your
web speed it's close to one second on
Mobile's PC as possible and that way you
can give your customers your potential
prospects a great experience and
encourage more conversions and more time
on your
website deadly sin 4 is unclear C
messaging companies in the tech and SAS
space are super guilty of this as well
as a bunch of other Industries but how
many times you've been on a tech website
you see that top hero top Banner
headline scrolled around for a while and
you're still not entirely sure what they
actually do an example might be a 360
degree Cutting Edge insight into all
your channels at once sharing all these
ideas to dramatically improve bottom
line it's like that sounds great there's
a lot of jargon but I'm still not
entirely sure what you can do for me or
my business so Clarity in my opinion
will always be clever so I'd rather a
clear headline that's going to share the
problem that we fix the results that we
bring the job we help you get done or
how are we're going to help impact your
business or you personally or your
Revenue so for example on my podcast
business growth show my website
Headliners a B2B marketing podcast that
won't send you to sleep I've then got
cool to actions to Apple Spotify and
YouTube and then the sub headline is
actionable B2B marketing demand gen
website tips no BS no fluff weekly
episodes so short it's concise and it
says what it does on the tin another
example proposify ccom they do proposals
and document tools their main headline
is untangle your sales document process
with leading proposal software so I'm
guessing they've probably done some
customer research and realizing that
tangled up documents is probably
something that's used a lot they're
talking about how they fix that and then
the sub headline is propose five
proposal software helps growing teams
remove document bottlenecks and get
visibility into the most important stage
of the sales cycle the close and I'm
guessing again that's what their target
prospects probably sales leaders and
such want to drill down on and then
they've got two cool to actions to free
trial or demo another example it's
actually our sponsor of the show so SL
shout out to leader.com by deal front
they've got a pretty cool headline turn
page views into pipelines it's quite
literally saying you can turn your
website visitors into leads or deals and
the sub headline is identify the
companies already visiting your website
and convert them into high value leads
and then you've got the free trial or
demo cool to action so that should
hopefully give you some inspiration
other areas I see companies fall short
is sometimes they'll put something like
award-winning ex provider and it's just
a bit generic I mean every company these
days has won an award or accreditation
of some kind and we're almost toned deaf
to it so drilling into the exact problem
juicy problem you fix and how you fix it
the job you help people get done or the
actual clear value prop that you go for
is good another one I haven't talked
about is talking about the enemy in your
sector so perhaps there's something that
agencies do all the time so we might say
in the SEO space no Hard Sell no joke
tactics no BS just SEO organic results
or something like that I mean the SEO
industry is notoriously Shady for sales
people trying to Hard Sell you tactics
Hard Sell you plans you might not need
so talking about that enemy clear
transparent pricing clear account
manager clear results that kind of thing
and I'm sure you've got something
similar in your industry that they're
notorious for you quite literally go
against the enemy in your sector so that
should give you some ideas in terms of
building together a clear messaging
structure for your
business dadon number five is hiding
your pricing so many B2B companies are
afraid of doing it because they think
that it's going to to tear leads perhaps
going to send people to their
competitors when in my opinion it's one
of the most impactful and Powerful Pages
for your website because it can qualify
in right fit prospects repel poor fit
prospects and send decently to your
sales team and show
transparency so what we recommend so for
the web Choice website as an example
we're a service-based company providing
B2B SEO and web design and builds so we
don't have set kind of Tears as such a
lot of our stuff is tailored towards
what prospects need based upon their
needs goals and objectives so on our SEO
pricing page we quite literally say SEO
fundamentals for small and local
businesses is from 1.5k a month or
aggressive SEO for growing B2B and SAS
companies is from 4K month we've got a
little breakdown of some of the features
included in each then we're backing up
our pricing with some relevant
testimonial videos of Happy customers
then share a bit more about our
expertise and our own SEO results so you
can put proof of your own work we break
down the stages in our case on page off
page SEO but you can break down your
phases of work what's entailed in the
scope of work got a little video summary
of how we do SEO and then we've got some
FAQs at the bottom to talk about common
questions we get asked how do you drive
results when is SEO a good fit when is
it a bad fit how do you out rank
competitors so we're actually addressing
qu questions we actually get on sales
calls and then we've got some more
social proof we've got some testimonials
from our clients that we've got results
for then some logos of brands that we've
worked with and then clear call to
actions throughout to request a consult
to get in touch and contact so pricing
is super powerful qualifies in Good Fit
prospects if you're not a SAS OR tech
company with set ABC tiers you can put a
starting from or a range for your two or
three most popular um offerings you can
back up your claims with social proof
video reviews testimonials and such you
can address common questions and
objections in FAQ section you get on
sales calls so pricing can be super good
to make sure that you send the right
qualified leads you show transparency
and and drive decent inbound for
yourselves
team deadly sin number six is ignoring
SEO and ignoring marketing your website
build it in they come does not work does
not apply when it comes to your B2B
website you need to be actively
marketing it building an audience and
advertising it on the channels that your
target prospects are using when it comes
to researching evaluating and directly
going to speak to sales when they need
your offering so if you are in an
established sector where your target
clients are aware of the problems you
fix and aware of the services that
you're providing then marketing on
Google makes sense so building out a
search engine optimization an SEO
strategy plan when it comes to keyword
research website content technical seo
off-page seo like L link building
building up citations and looking to
rank your website that organically Mak
sense because your product your offer is
in demand or likewise doing Google ads
Google PID search probably makes sense
as well because you can capture that
demand a bit faster with the sponsored
ads at the top and bottom of Google's
results or likewise if you're perhaps in
Tech then using paid review sites
whether that's G2 capterra clutch trust
radius or similar because those review
sites aggregated they get a ton of
search traffic and quite a fast way to
get inbound leads with the paid
sponsored listing on their sites there's
a bunch of other ways it could be
LinkedIn targeted ads to your Target
demographic another way to build
awareness Drive website traffic and
build demand and build inbound over time
but if you're an industry perhaps that's
not as well recognized perhaps prospects
do not know the problems you fix or not
that aware about your offering yet
Google might not be the best bet so you
might want to workout research where do
your prospects hang out where do they
spend the time is it LinkedIn is it
YouTube is it another Channel and you
might want to start building awareness
around the problem you fix how you help
addressing common questions concerns job
to be done creating media whether that's
videos podcasts articles assets posts if
it's on social or LinkedIn to start
building up that awareness building up
Solutions around problem you fix
building up Social proof ideas building
that audience so when they do need your
offer or when they do realize they have
the problem you fixed they come direct
to
[Music]
you
deadly sin number seven is setting and
forgetting so as I often say your
website live 24/7 and it can be a very
worst or your very best sales rep
depending on how you research it design
it build it out Market it and optimize
it we want to make sure it's your best
so you can't just put it live and hope
for the best you want to regularly look
for ways to improve it that could be
reviewing analytics see if there's pages
that got a high bounce rate where
someone flicks on the site spends a
couple seconds and bounce is off what
can we do to improve that are people
perhaps not seeing the message they want
to see on your homepage perhaps they're
not going to those key Pages you want
them to go on so you want to understand
why that is and look for ways to improve
it you can do customer interviews that
we talked about at the start of this
episode so learning from your prospects
clients you've recently won or signed up
what was it about your offer that they
liked what was the problem you fix what
are the results they want to achieve
what jobs they care about doing so you
can leverage their words they use the
things they care about what they want
want to achieve in your messaging your
copy your headlines and more you can
analyze competition to see if there's
any gaps that you can improve upon you
can use heat map software to understand
what people do on your website where
they're clicking where they're not
clicking if they're not seeing the
information they want to see fast enough
if they're not clicking through to key
pages to understand what might need
tweaking what might need changing so the
point I'm getting is you need to
constantly evaluate your website look
for ways you can improve learn from your
customers learn from website activity
and understand what changes you can make
to get the best possible impact from
your site and drive those conversions
drive those inbound
leads deadly sin number eight is zero
proof and when I say zero proof I mean
social proof so showing to prospects
examples of customers that you've helped
fix a problem bring results improve
their business improve their revenue
showing proof of your work and you might
think Sam well most websites these days
have got some testimonials sure but a
lot of them fall short when it comes to
getting specific with their social proof
and getting tailored showing it in
relevant points on the website so one
quick example of this is most B2B Tech
and SAS websites have their Topline menu
navigation then they've got a hero or
Banner area and then they've got a bar
which is say logos Brands we've helped
clients we've helped Etc what you could
do here let's say you help Service
Company specifically you might say we've
helped
5327 service companies improve their
revenue or whatever your value
proposition is and however many
customers you've helped puts a bit more
proof in the pudding get specific with a
number of clients you've helped and
explains exactly what you helped them
with so a lot more tailored specific
messaging to build trust another thing
that I see fall short is websites have
testimonials but they're just quote
marks what you can consider doing is
adding the prospects picture their face
put a face to the name their name job
title position company name Etc just
makes it a bit more trustworthy other
ideas are doing testimonial videos which
can be placed nicely on your homepage at
relevant area customer success page case
study page perhaps even on your contact
requested demo page underneath the main
inquiry formal calendar link and those
customer interview videos that we talked
about or customer interview recordings
we talked about earlier in the episode
can be leveraged here so in those
customer success stories you share
problem they came to you with impact it
had on their business why they chose you
results you've brought to the table why
they recommend you and more and those
videos can be placed on your website but
chopped up for socials you can pull
testimonial quotes out there for written
testimonies on your website so much
replay value that those alone so think
of various your website where your
social proof can be a bit more tailored
a bit more specific with the wording and
a bit more trustworthy and it's going to
really build more confidence on your
website I hope you get more conversions
your
way
deadly sin number nine we've got hiding
the goods what I mean by that is not
showing your website visitors your offer
in action and tech companies SAS
companies and B2B are pretty guilty of
this there's a number of ways you can do
it you can show perhaps a video walkr of
your offer your tool in action you can
perhaps show case studies or customer
stories or walkthroughs if you're more
of a service based business you can show
gifts screen shots replays of your offer
your main features in action and there's
a bunch of different ideas essentially
lifting the Bonnet of your tool your
service or offer so prospects can get a
good insight into those problems it
solves how it solves them the results it
brings to give them the trust encourage
them to actually book that fully fledged
demo or request that call or consult
with your team so they're getting a lift
up under the hood before they're having
that sales cool rather than forcing them
to speak to sales first so Panda do
actually do quite a nice view of this so
on their homepage they've got their
headline they've got call to actions and
straight underneath before you need to
scroll on the desktop view they've got
like a a gif video walk through of how
you can edit docs how you can choose
some templates how you can open one up
and how you can edit one all in that
initial kind of GIF video runr and that
starts also playing as soon as you land
on the site so straight away you get to
see under the Bonnet and see how their
offer Works another different examples
on Deal front.com under the hero area
you've got screenshots of the product
the offer so in their case finding
relevant data finding leads and to the
left of that you've got the feature
summary so talks about a feature and
then just next to it it's got a
screenshot of that particular tool so as
you scroll down you've got feature one
feature two and then next to it you've
got a relevant screenshot kind of
showing that feature in play so
essentially we're show talking about
showing the goods let prospects know how
it works give them Insight give them
views into how the platform the product
the feature the SAS tool works let them
understand it let them have a little
play around with it if you can with an
interactive demo if relevant and then
give them that trust to then be
confident enough to reach out to your
sales team and start the
conversation and last up we've got
deadly sin number 10 which is no clear
calls to action call to action guiding
prospects guiding visitors on our
website to take that next step that
might be book a cool request a demo
request a proposal
get a free analysis or something else
when it comes to cool to actions you've
got the basics so in your top line menu
navigation typically top right you've
got a standout color maybe orange blue
purple whatever it may be button that's
fixed that top menu navigation so even
when you scroll on mobile PC that menu
Nows fixed with that clear cool to
action or perhaps on mobile when you
expand to click open that menu you've
got that clear cool to action that's
always there I recommend tailoring it
making it personalized to exactly what
the offer is so if that's book a free 20
minute strategy session book an on-site
analysis book a tailored demo speak to a
sales engineer what is it the prospects
specifically ask to do most commonly
when they want to take that next sales
action with you call it that put it on
your site get it fixed that navigation
whether that's mobile or desktop and
have it consistently placed when you're
scrolling down pages so perhap your top
hero area as people go through features
as they're on service or offer pages so
matter where they are on the site it's
nice and easy for them to take that
relevant next step and book a time or
book a consult with sales with you and
make sure it's tailored to that relevant
action the other thing to consider is if
you're building out resource Pages maybe
that's blog
articles or similar then the relevant
cool to action there probably isn't
going to be to speak to a salesperson so
you want to tailor the cool to action so
it's actually relevant to what stage in
the sales fun or someone is so if
they're more educational more in a
learning or information based phase
which they're probably aru with they're
on the blog article as opposed to a
homepage or service page so on a Blog
article it might be a cool to action to
check out our YouTube channel get more
educational resources on our podcast get
our free email tips or a lead magnet get
our free best 150 tips dox guide or our
six-step walkthrough guide and then that
nurtures them gets them into your email
funnel So Co to actions make them
relevant make them tailored personalized
and consistent to the offer that makes
sense for the page and there you have it
I hope today's episode on the 10 deadly
B2B website sins has given you some Fu
For Thought when it comes to improving
your B2B website research messaging
design conversions and more if you
enjoyed the episode a subscribe on
YouTube a rating or a viw on your
podcast channel is always very much
appreciated and for more resources
playbooks my week daily emails or
whenever you're ready to to work with me
head over to samd dunn. org cheers